[WFLY-12904] quickstart to run ejb remote call with transaction propagation (#372)
wildfly/quickstart: ejb-txn-remote-call/README.adoc

include::../shared-doc/attributes.adoc[]

= ejb-txn-remote-call: Demonstrates remote EJB calls and transaction propagation
:author: Ondra Chaloupka
:level: Intermediate
:technologies: EJB, JTA, Clustering

[abstract]
The `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart demonstrates remote EJB calls over two application servers of {productName}.

:standalone-server-type: ha
:archiveType: war
:uses-h2:
:requires-multiple-servers:
:jbds-not-supported:

== What is it?

The `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart demonstrates the remote EJB calls over two application servers of {productNameFull}.

== Description

The EJB remote call contains a JTA transaction that is propagated over the EJB call.
Further, the quickstart demonstrates the transaction recovery, which is run for both servers
when a failure occurs.

This quickstart contains two maven projects.
The first maven project represents the caller side, and is intended to be deployed on the first server (`server1`).
The second project represents the called side. This project is intended to be deployed

> to the other two servers (`server2` and `server2`). The two projects should not be deployed to the same server.

Reviewer: "to the other two servers (`server2` and `server2`)"

"server2" repeated. I think the second instance is supposed to be "server3".

.Maven projects in this quickstart
[cols="40%,60%",options="headers"]
|===
|Project |Description

|`client`
|An application that you deploy to the first server, to `server1`.
It provides REST endpoints that provides EJB remote calls to the `server application`
residing on the other servers.
Besides the remote EJB call the REST endpoint invocation processes data insertion to a database.
As the REST invocation starts a transaction then the transaction enlists two participants
(the database and the remote server called with EJB remote invocation).
The transaction manager then uses the two-phase commit for committing the transaction.
The quickstart examines failures and shows the transactional behaviour
in such cases.

|`server`

> |An application receives the remote EJB calls from the `client` application deployed at `server1`.

Reviewer: "An application receives " > "An application that receives"

This application is deployed to `server2` and `server3`.
The EJB component receives the EJB remote call and depending on the scenario
it resumes on the transaction propagated in the context of the remote EJB call.
The call inserts data to the database.
The applications also enlists a special XAResource to the transaction to demonstrate the quickstart.
|===

> === What to expect?

Reviewer: Why not "Running the quickstart"?

Why is this heading nested a level lower than the previous heading?  Shouldn't they be at the same level?

The description is separated into two parts. The first one explains how to run the quickstart in a bare metal environment.
The second one talks about deployment of the quickstart to Kubernetes and to OpenShift.

> The sequence of events to expected for bare metal installation:

Reviewer: Why not "Running the quickstart in a bare metal environment"?  

It seems to me this should be a heading, as this procedure and the next are different tasks.

> . Create three directories `server1`, `server2` and `server3` from installation directory of {productName}

Reviewer: Recommended practice is to orient the user to the location where the action should be performed:

"In the {productName} installation directory, create three directories: `server1`, `server2` and `server3`."

> . Configure credentials on `server2` and `server2`

Reviewer: "`server2` and `server2`"  "`server2`" is repeated.

Need a period at the end of the sentence.

> . Configure remote outbound connection from `server1` to both servers `server2` and `server3`

Reviewer: "Configure remote outbound connection"

I think you need the definite article here: "Configure a remote outbound connection"

. Configure datasources, first on `server1` and then on both servers `server2` and `server3`
. Start all 3 servers
. Deploy the quickstart application to all servers.

> .. The deployed application at `server1` behaves as a client to both other servers.

Reviewer: It looks like there is a line break after this line.  If you want the following text to be rendered correctly as nested under this bullet, you need to insert a "+" on a link by itself:

.. The deployed application at `server1` behaves as a client to both other servers.
+
The `server1` offers several HTTP endpoints <<rest-endpoints>>. When the HTTP endpoint is invoked
it starts an EJB call going to one of the servers `server2` or `server3`.

As currently formatted, a new paragraph will be created, and the numbering will be restarted at the next list item.

> The `server1` offers several HTTP endpoints <<rest-endpoints>>. When the HTTP endpoint is invoked

Reviewer: "The `server1` offers several HTTP endpoints"

I suspect you are trying to avoid starting a sentence with a lower-case letter.  This is not the approach I would take.  Perhaps something like:

"The client server, `server1`, offers several HTTP endpoints."

> it starts an EJB call going to one of the servers `server2` or `server3`.

Reviewer: it starts an EJB call going to one of the servers `server2` or `server3`.

"going" is not needed here.  How about:

"it starts an EJB call to either `server2` or `server3`."

. Call one of the HTTP endpoints at `server1`. Based on the scenario EJB remote calls

> hit the remote server and specific behaviour can be observed (see<<rest-endpoints>>).

Reviewer: "Based on the scenario EJB remote calls hit the remote server and specific behaviour can be observed (see<<rest-endpoints>>)."

It is good practice to format a result such as this as a paragraph under the bullet.  Use a "+" on a line by itself to ensure the additional text is correctly indented.

> .. During the EJB remote calls data is inserted into database at the each involved server.

Reviewer: This is not a user action, so it should not be formatted as a numbered step. It is additional result information. Format it as an additional information paragraph following the previous paragraph.

> The sequence of events expected for Kubernetes deployment:

Reviewer: Why not "Running the quickstartg in a Kubernetes environment", and as a heading?

> . Start PostgreSQL database in the Kubernetes

Reviewer: "Start PostgreSQL database"

You need an article here.  I'm not sure whether it should be "a" or "the".

"in the Kubernetes" 

Something is wrong here.  Either complete the phrase with a noun, or delete "the".

. Build the docker image from this quickstart with `s2i`

> . Push the docker image to Kubernetes registry

Reviewer: "Push the docker image to Kubernetes registry"

"to the Kubernetes registry"?

. Deploy the {productName} Operator to Kubernetes
. Deploy the `CustomerResource` definition of this quickstart to Kubernetes
. Run the HTTP calls against `server1` that invoke the EJB remote calls to other two servers.
Then examine the behaviour

> The sequence of events expected for OpenShift deployment:

Reviewer: Heading issue, as with other procedures.

> . Start PostgreSQL database in the OpenShift

Reviewer: Article issues.

All steps int eh procedure are missing periods at the end of the sentences.

> . Use OpenShift `oc` commands to build this quickstart and deploy it to OpenShift registry

Reviewer: "deploy it to OpenShift registry" > "deploy it to the OpenShift registry"

. Deploy the {productName} Operator to OpenShift
. Deploy the `CustomerResource` definition of this quickstart to OpenShift

> . Setup OpenShift permissions to get {productName} cluster formed

Reviewer: "to get {productName} cluster formed" > "to form a {productName} cluster"

Both calls are directed to the same stateful bean on the remote server because
the stateful bean invocations are sticky by default.
The EJB remote call is constructed from the configuration of `remote-outbound-connection`.
|The returned hostnames must be the same.

|__http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__
|An invocation under the transaction context started on `server1` (the sender side).
The call goes to one of the remote servers, where errors occur during transaction processing.
But the failure happens when a two-phase commit decides about the work.
You can see no error &ndash; the remote call finishes with success.
This HTTP call finishes with success.
Later it's the responsibility of the recovery manager to finish the work.
|When the recovery manager finishes the work all the transaction resources are committed.

|===

=== Remote call failure invocation

Let's put some more details for the failure case, when __http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__
is invoked.

This EJB call simulates the presence of an intermittent network error that
occurs after the prepare phase of a JTA transaction but before the commit phase.

> The reason a two-phase commit protocol (2PC) is used is because there is more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EJB call uses a two-phase commit protocol (2PC) because more
```

> than one participant involved in the transaction: one for the database update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than one participant is  involved in the transaction: one for the database update
```

> and a second one (called `MockXAResource`) to force 2PC to be used. Since all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a second one (called `MockXAResource`) to force 2PC to be used. Because all
```

Our style guide recommends not using "since" as a synonym for 
"because" to avoid translation problems.

> participants have prepared, a JTA transaction manager will eventually commit the

Reviewer: "Because all participants have prepared..."

It seems like something is missing here.  What have the participants prepared?

Author: I want to talk about "prepare" phase of the 2PC protocol. I change the sentence to "Because the prepare phase of 2PC protocol finished successfully for both participants, ...". I hope it will be better. Let me know.

> transaction so from the callers point of view the request was successful even

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transaction. Therefore, from the callers point of view the request was successful even
```
Our style guide recommends not using "so" as a conjunction, as it is ambiguous.  In this case, "therefore" is the preferred word.

though the commit of the database update is still pending.

> You may ask the server about the number of successful commits of the `MockXAResource`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can request the number of successful commits of the `MockXAResource` on a server
```

by invoking the REST endpoint __http://localhost:8180/server/commits`. The output of

> this command is a tuple which informs you about the host name and node name of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this command is a tuple that informs you about the host name and node name of
```

> the server you’ve called and then the number of commits recorded. For example the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the server that was called and the number of commits recorded. For example the
```

output `["host: mydev.narayana.io/192.168.0.1, jboss node name: server2","3"]`
says that the hostname is `mydev.narayana.io`, the jboss node name is `server2`,
and the number of commits is `3`.

A http://jbossts.blogspot.com/2018/01/narayana-periodic-recovery-of-xa.html[transaction recovery manager]

> will periodically retry the unfinished work (by default, it runs every 2 minutes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
periodically retries the unfinished work (by default, it runs every 2 minutes).
```
Avoid future tense.  Use simple present.

> When it has successfully committed both participants the transaction is complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it has successfully committed both participants, the transaction is complete
```

> and the database update will be visible which you can confirm by reissueing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the database update will be visible.  You can confirm the database update by reissuing the
```

command to report the number of commits.

The recovery process runs periodically on all servers, but the one

> which we are interested in is the recovery at the `server1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that  we are interested in is the recovery at the `server1`.
```

The recovery process running on the `server1` ensures

> committing our unfinished transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the unfinished transaction is committed.
```

> You may speed up the process and invoke the recovery process manually by accessing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can speed up the process and invoke the recovery process manually by accessing
```

> the port where the recovery listens at.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the port on which the recovery process listens.
```

> This functionality has to be explicitly setup. We already did it by prior cli commands, see more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality must be explicitly setup. CLI commands described elsewhere set up the functionality. For details, see
```

> at <<remote_configuration_cli, The CLI script remote-configuration.cli>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<<remote_configuration_cli, The CLI script remote-configuration.cli>>.
```

> To invoke the recovery manually you may use the `telnet` and send the `SCAN` command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To invoke the recovery manually, use `telnet` to send the `SCAN` command
```

to the recovery manager socket at `localhost:4712`.

[NOTE]
====

> If the telnet is not available at your machine we recommend you to install it for you may proceed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If telnet is not available on your machine, install it before proceeding
```

further with this guide.
====

> ==== Steps for observing the processing of remote-outbound-fail-stateless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Observing the processing of remote-outbound-fail-stateless
```

> First, verify how many `commits` are counted on `server2` and `server3` by executing the `/commits` HTTP endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify how many `commits` are counted on `server2` and `server3` by executing the `/commits` HTTP endpoints
```

> when you may read number of commits counted on the particular server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when you can read number of commits counted on the particular server.
```

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+",options="nowrap"]
----
curl http://localhost:8180/server/commits; echo
# output:
# ["host: mydev.narayana.io/192.168.0.1, jboss node name: server2","1"]
curl http://localhost:8280/server/commits; echo
# output:
# ["host: mydev.narayana.io/192.168.0.1, jboss node name: server3","2"]
----

> Next you invoke the HTTP request to __http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Invoke the HTTP request to __http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__
+
```

> and the output prints what was the server the request hits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output prints the name of server the request hits.
+
```

> When you immediately run the `/commit` HTTP endpoint on that server, you observe the same number of commits as before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Immediately run the `/commit` HTTP endpoint on that server.
+
Verify that the same number of commits are returned as before
```

the `/remote-outbound-fail-stateless` invocation.

> You may check the log of `server1` to see a warning which informs that the transaction was not fully finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the log of `server1` for a warning that the transaction was not fully finished.
```

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
ARJUNA016036: commit on < formatId=131077, gtrid_length=35, bqual_length=36, tx_uid=..., node_name=server1, branch_uid=..., subordinatenodename=null, eis_name=unknown eis name > (Subordinate XAResource at remote+http://localhost:8180) failed with exception $XAException.XA_RETRY: javax.transaction.xa.XAException: WFTXN0029: The peer threw an XA exception
----

This error means that the transaction manager was not able to commit the transaction.

> There happens an error on committing transaction on the remote side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An error occurred committing the transaction on the remote side,
```

> which caused the `XAException.XA_RETRY` exception was reported here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which caused the `XAException.XA_RETRY` exception reported here.
```

This XA exception means an intermittent failure, and the recovery manager
will try to replay the commit later.

> The  `server2` or `server3` will contain warning of an `XAResource` failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logs on `server2` or `server3` contain a warning of an `XAResource` failure.
```

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
ARJUNA016036: commit on < formatId=131077, gtrid_length=35, bqual_length=43, tx_uid=..., node_name=server1, branch_uid=..., subordinatenodename=server2, eis_name=unknown eis name > (org.jboss.as.quickstarts.ejb.mock.MockXAResource@731ae22) failed with exception $XAException.XAER_RMFAIL: javax.transaction.xa.XAException
----

The quickstart intentionally setup the exception to simulate

> the failure during the commit. We can see that the log reports that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the failure during the commit. The log reports that
```

> the `MockXAResource` threw the `XAException.XAER_RMFAIL` which is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `MockXAResource` threw the `XAException.XAER_RMFAIL` error, which is the
```

> intermittent failure which can be recovered later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intermittent failure that can be recovered later.
```

> Now run the `telnet` to force recovery processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use telnet to force recovery processing.
```

[source]
----
telnet localhost 4712
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to localhost.
Escape character is '^]'.
SCAN
DONE
Connection closed by foreign host.
----

> It takes a while when the recovery manager at `server1` processes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recovery manager  on `server1` takes some time to process the request.
```

> and then `DONE` is printed and `telnet` finishes. With that we committed all the work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When processing is complete, `DONE` is printed and telnet exits. At that point, all work is committed.
```

> Then you observe the number of commits on the particular server increases by one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of commits on the server increases by one.
```

> The whole sequence of the calls in your terminal may be then similar to following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The whole sequence of the calls in your terminal resemble the following example code.
```

while true; do
  curl -s $(minikube service server-loadbalancer --url)/commits
  echo
  sleep 2
done
----

=== Running on OpenShift

include::../shared-doc/cd-openshift-getting-started.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

Running on https://www.okd.io[OpenShift] is similar to running on Kubernetes.
The only difference is that some processes are a bit more automated.

Before starting to implement the QS on OpenShift, review <<_running_on_kubernetes, Running on Kubernetes>>.

==== Running on OpenShift: Prerequisites

include::../shared-doc/cd-create-project.adoc[leveloffset=+4]

[#_running_on_openshift_start_postgresql_database]
===== Running on OpenShift: Start PostgreSQL database

For testing purposes you can use

[source,sh,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# change path to ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
# deploy not-production ready PostgreSQL database to OpenShift
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/postgresql.deployment.yaml
----

[#_running_on_openshift_build_the_application]
==== Running on OpenShift: Build the application

OpenShift provides the s2i functionality out-of-the-box.

> The quickstart defines two OpenShift templates, which setup the `ImageStream`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quickstart defines two OpenShift templates.
```

> and the `BuildConfig`. The `BuildConfig` template builds the application based on the images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The `BuildConfig` template builds the application based on the images
```

oc new-app --template=wildfly-s2i -p IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE=$(oc project -q) \
  -p APPLICATION_NAME=server -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.git \
  -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_REF=master -p CONTEXT_DIR=ejb-txn-remote-call/server
----

These commands create the `ImageStream` image, which contains the docker image
of the {productName} runtime image with the deployed applications of this quickstart.

Wait for the builds to finish. After a few minutes you can
verify the build status by running the `oc get pod` command. The output should
show that the `*-build` jobs have the value `Completed` in the `STATUS` column.

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
oc get pod
NAME                                READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
client-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          35m
client-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          45m
server-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          15m
server-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          19m
----

[#_running_on_openshift_install_productname_operator]
==== Running on OpenShift: Install {productName} Operator

> Installation of the {productName} Operator on OpenShift is summarized at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installation of the {productName} Operator on OpenShift is summarized in the
```

and consume them with address `localhost:5000` in the `*-cr.yaml` inside of the minikube.

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
docker tag wildfly-quickstarts/client $(minikube ip):5000/wildfly-quickstarts/client
docker push $(minikube ip):5000/wildfly-quickstarts/client
docker tag wildfly-quickstarts/server $(minikube ip):5000/wildfly-quickstarts/server
docker push $(minikube ip):5000/wildfly-quickstarts/server
----

[NOTE]
====
If pushing of the image fails with authentication error
it may help to enable an insecure registry for address `$(minikube ip):5000`.

Add the address to the list of the insecure registries,
normally by editing file  `/etc/docker/daemon.json`.

[source,json,options="nowrap"]
----
{
  "insecure-registries": ["<minikube ip address>:5000"]
}
----

Reload the docker daemon with `systemctl daemon-reload; systemctl restart docker`.
====

The other option is to change the docker context
https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/#use-local-images-by-re-using-the-docker-daemon[to use the minikube one].

[#_running_on_kubernetes_run_with_productname_operator]
==== Running on Kubernetes: run with {productName} Operator

> You deploy the {productName} Operator via Kubernetes `Deployment` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You deploy the {productName} Operator via  the Kubernetes `Deployment` object.
```

> The {productName} Operator listens to changes at other Kubernetes objects

Reviewer: 'The {productName} Operator listens to changes at other Kubernetes objects'

Is "at" typical Kubernetes usage?  "changes to Kubernetes objects" is more typical usage, but Kubernetes may have different language practices.

of the type `CustomerResource`.

> The WildFly Operator manages `CustomerResource` of kind `WildFlyServer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WildFly Operator manages `CustomerResource` of the kind `WildFlyServer`.
```

> The WildFly Operator can be found at https://quay.io[Quay.io]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the WildFly Operator at https://quay.io[Quay.io]
```

> repository at https://quay.io/repository/wildfly/wildfly-operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
repository at https://quay.io/repository/wildfly/wildfly-operator,
```

with source code at https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator.

You can find the Operator's `Deployment` definition in the YAML descriptor

> at https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/operator.yaml[WildFly Operator Github repository].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/operator.yaml[WildFly Operator Github repository].
```

For the deployment to work correctly a https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/service_account.yaml[service account],
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/role.yaml[a role] and

> https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/role_binding.yaml[a role binding] have to be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/role_binding.yaml[a role binding] must exist
```
We should avoid using passive voice, but this is a case where the target user may not be responsible for creating the necessary objects.  The suggested edit addresses both issues.

in the Kubernetes cluster.

> The follow-up step is creation of https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/crds/wildfly_v1alpha1_wildflyserver_crd.yaml[`CustomResourceDefinition`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The follow-up step is creation of a https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/deploy/crds/wildfly_v1alpha1_wildflyserver_crd.yaml[`CustomResourceDefinition`]
```

> (abbreviated as *CRD*) which defines what capabilities the Operator provides and which things may be configured for the `WildFlyServer` `CustomerResource`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(abbreviated as *CRD*), which defines what capabilities the Operator provides and which things may be configured for the `WildFlyServer` `CustomerResource`.
```

[NOTE]
====
If you clone the https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator[WildFly Operator GitHub repository] to your

> local disk you may use the prepared script https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/build/run-minikube.sh[build/run-minikube.sh]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
local disk you can use the prepared script https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/build/run-minikube.sh[build/run-minikube.sh]
```

> for that purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to create the CRD.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
git clone https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator
./wildfly-operator/build/run-minikube.sh
----
====

The quickstart uses clustering.

> The {productName} clustering works with https://github.com/jgroups-extras/jgroups-kubernetes[jgroups `KUBE_PING`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{productName} clustering works with the https://github.com/jgroups-extras/jgroups-kubernetes[jgroups `KUBE_PING`]
```

> protocol. This protocol requires having permission to list all available pods in scope of the `namespace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protocol. This protocol requires the user to have permission to list all available pods in scope of the `namespace`.
```

The `default` `ServiceAccount` does not have such permissions.

> For development purposes it is possible to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For development purposes you can use the
```

> https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/examples/clustering/crds/role_binding.yaml[`RoleBinding` definition from WildFly Operator repository].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/examples/clustering/crds/role_binding.yaml[`RoleBinding` definition from  the WildFly Operator repository].
```

> The definition permits for the deployments to view details information about any Kubernetes object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definition permits deployments to view details information about any Kubernetes object
```

> inside of the current `namespace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the current `namespace`.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/master/examples/clustering/crds/role_binding.yaml
----

> When all this is set up, and the {productName} Operator `Pod` is running we may prepare a definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the Operator is set up and the {productName} Operator `Pod` is running, we can prepare a definition
```

> of the `CustomerResource` which makes the application deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the `CustomResource`, which makes the application deployed.
```
I'm not sure what edit to recommend for `makes the application deployed`.  I suspect that the `CustomResource` does not actually do the deployment.  Perhaps "is used to deploy the application"?

The `CustomerResource` definition points to the built images `wildfly-quickstarts/client` and `wildfly-quickstarts/server`

> which has to be provided to Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which must be provided to Kubernetes.
```

> The WildFly Operator should now be running and the images will be available for use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WildFly Operator should now be running and the images available for use.
```

> For checking that the WildFly Operator is running check with the command `kubectl get pods` which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the WildFly Operator is running, issue the command `kubectl get pods` . The result output should resemble 
```

> should be showing the similar output to the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the following example output.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
kubectl get pods

NAME                                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
postgresql-7dd74c84dc-s8sh8         1/1     Running   0          2m44s
wildfly-operator-5d4b7cc868-8qhjn   1/1     Running   0          16m
----

> [#running_on_kubernetes_deploy_customer_resource]

Reviewer: Is there supposed to be a heading here?  I assume the ID is here to create an anchor.  Recommended practice in technical documentation is to link to an anchor.

Reviewer: In my original comment, I meant to say that recommended practice is to link to a heading. It would be better to have a heading, but I can live with this.

Author: I see. I added a new title here.

> The `CustomerResource` may be provided to Kubernetes to be processed by WildFly Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide the `CustomerResource` to Kubernetes so it can be processed by WildFly Operator.
```

> [WARN]

Reviewer: I would change this to IMPORTANT.

I spent some time working in medical devices, and in that environment, and similar regulated environments, "WARN" has the specific meaning of risk of death or serious injury.

Some people advocate using "WARN" in a software context if there is risk of data loss, but I think "Important" covers that effectively.

It's a bit of a personal issue, and not one I would spent a lot of time arguing.

====
* Change the `-cr.yaml` to point to the location where the docker image resides.
* Verify that the location and username/password credentials for the PostgreSQL database
  match what is deployed in your cluster.
====

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}

> # 1. change the applicationImage in ejb-txn-remote-call/client/client-cr.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 1. Change the applicationImage in ejb-txn-remote-call/client/client-cr.yaml.
```

> #    to work with 'localhost:5000'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#    to work with 'localhost:5000'.
```

> # 2. deploy the WildFly Operator CR which defines one replica of 'client'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 2. Deploy the WildFly Operator CR which defines one replica of 'client'
```

kubectl create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/client-cr.yaml

> # 1. change the applicationImage in ejb-txn-remote-call/server/server-cr.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 1. Change the applicationImage in ejb-txn-remote-call/server/server-cr.yaml
```

> #    to work with 'localhost:5000'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#    to work with 'localhost:5000'.
```

> # 2. deploy the WildFly Operator CR which defines two replicas of 'server'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 2. Deploy the WildFly Operator CR which defines two replicas of 'server'.
```

kubectl create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/server/server-cr.yaml
----

> With this the applications are deployed to minikube. The listing of pods should show the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the applications are deployed to minikube. The listing of pods should show the following.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
kubectl get pods

NAME                                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
client-0                            1/1     Running   0          15h
postgresql-7dd74c84dc-s8sh8         1/1     Running   0          15h
server-0                            1/1     Running   0          54m
server-1                            1/1     Running   0          54m
wildfly-operator-5d4b7cc868-8qhjn   1/1     Running   0          15h

# check the logs of the servers are clean from any errors
kubectl logs client-0
kubectl logs server-0
kubectl logs server-1
----

[#_running_on_kubernetes_verify_the_running_application]
==== Running on Kubernetes: verify the running application

> With this running it could check the calls to the endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have your applications running on Kubernetes, you can check the calls to the endpoints.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-stateless | jq .
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-notx-stateless | jq .
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/direct-stateless | jq .
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-notx-stateful | jq .

# to check failure resolution
curl -s $(minikube service server-loadbalancer --url)/commits
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-fail-stateless
# waiting for recovery is kicked on and the number of commits increases
while true; do
  curl -s $(minikube service server-loadbalancer --url)/commits
  echo
  sleep 2
done
----

=== Running on OpenShift

include::../shared-doc/cd-openshift-getting-started.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

> All the points said about the Kubernetes are valid for https://www.okd.io[OpenShift].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running on https://www.okd.io[OpenShift] is similar to running on Kubernetes.
```

> The only difference is that some processes are a bit more automatised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only difference is that some processes are a bit more automated.
```

> Please, first read the section on <<_running_on_kubernetes, Running on Kubernetes>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting to implement the QS on OpenShift, review <<_running_on_kubernetes, Running on Kubernetes>>.
```

==== Running on OpenShift: Prerequisites

include::../shared-doc/cd-create-project.adoc[leveloffset=+4]

[#_running_on_openshift_start_postgresql_database]
===== Running on OpenShift: Start PostgreSQL database

> For the test purposes you may use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For testing purposes you can use
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# change path to ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
# deploy not-production ready PostgreSQL database to OpenShift
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/postgresql.deployment.yaml
----

[#_running_on_openshift_build_the_application]
==== Running on OpenShift: Build the application

OpenShift provides the s2i functionality out-of-the-box.

> The quickstart defines two OpenShift templates which setup `ImageStream`s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quickstart defines two OpenShift templates, which setup the `ImageStream`
```

> and the `BuildConfig`. The `BuildConfig` builds the application based on the images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the `BuildConfig`. The `BuildConfig` template builds the application based on the images
```

> configured in the `ImageStream`. We named the `BuildConfig` template `wildfly-s2i`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configured in the `ImageStream` template. The `BuildConfig` template is named `wildfly-s2i`.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}

> # define the image streams of app server images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Define the image streams of app server images.
```

oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/openshift-image-streams.json

> # upload template definition for the builds named wildfly-s2i

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Upload the template definition for the builds named wildfly-s2i.
```

oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/openshift-chain-build-config.json

> # invoke the build via s2i chain build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Invoke the build via s2i chain build.
```

oc new-app --template=wildfly-s2i -p IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE=$(oc project -q) \
  -p APPLICATION_NAME=client -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.git \
  -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_REF=master -p CONTEXT_DIR=ejb-txn-remote-call/client
oc new-app --template=wildfly-s2i -p IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE=$(oc project -q) \
  -p APPLICATION_NAME=server -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.git \
  -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_REF=master -p CONTEXT_DIR=ejb-txn-remote-call/server
----

> With this we have created the `ImageStream` which contains the docker image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands create the `ImageStream`  image, which contains the docker image
```

of the {productName} runtime image with the deployed applications of this quickstart.

> Now you need to wait for the builds to finish. After a few minutes you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for the builds to finish. After a few minutes you can
```

> verify the build status by running the `oc get pod` command, the output should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
verify the build status by running the `oc get pod` command. The output should
```

show that the `*-build` jobs have the value `Completed` in the `STATUS` column.

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
oc get pod
NAME                                READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
client-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          35m
client-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          45m
server-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          15m
server-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          19m
----

[#_running_on_openshift_install_productname_operator]
==== Running on OpenShift: Install {productName} Operator

> For installing the {productName} Operator to OpenShift there are a few steps required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The best they are summarized at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installation of the {productName} Operator on OpenShift is summarized at 
```

https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/build/run-openshift.sh[build/run-openshift.sh].

> The script sets up OpenShift and creates the CRDs necessary for {productName} Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script sets up OpenShift and creates the CRDs necessary for {productName} Operator.
```

> and then it creates the `Deployment` objects which start the `Pod` with an operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then it creates the `Deployment` objects which start the `Pod` with an operator.
```

[NOTE]
====
For OpenShift 4 the {productName} Operator is part of the https://operatorhub.io[OperatorHub]

> and could be installed from there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and can be installed from there.
```

> With this the {productName} Operator may be installed directly from the OpenShift console on OpenShift 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {productName} Operator may be installed directly from the OpenShift console on OpenShift 4.
```

====

[#_running_on_openshift_run_the_quickstart_with_productname_operator]
==== Running on OpenShift: Run the Quickstart with {productName} Operator

> Now it's possible to deploy the`CustomerResource` of {productName} Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you install the {productName} Operator, you can deploy the`CustomResource` that uses it.
```

> The `CustomerResource` `yaml` definition contains information for the {productName} Operator starting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CustomResource.yaml` definition contains information the {productName} Operator uses to start
```

the application pods for the `client` and for the `server`.

[NOTE]
====

> If you follow the OpenShift prerequisite step then you work under OpenShift project {artifactId}-project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you follow the OpenShift prerequisite step, then you work under the OpenShift project {artifactId}-project.
```

Verify that the `applicationImage` value under `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/client-cr.yaml`

> `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server/server-cr.yaml` matches with the project name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server/server-cr.yaml` matches the project name.
```

> You can check with `oc get image`. It should show you a similar output to this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `oc get image` to check. The command should return an output similar to the following example.
```

> You should see the {artifactId}-project in the name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name should include {artifactId}-project.
```

[source,plain,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
NAME                    IMAGE REPOSITORY                                                                                     TAGS     UPDATED
client                  default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps-crc.testing/{artifactId}-project/client                  latest   2 minutes ago
client-build-artifacts  default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps-crc.testing/{artifactId}-project/client-build-artifacts  latest   8 minutes ago
server                  default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps-crc.testing/{artifactId}-project/server                  latest   2 minutes ago
server-build-artifacts  default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps-crc.testing/{artifactId}-project/server-build-artifacts  latest   9 minutes ago
----
====

> Before starting the application we need to add `view` permissions for the default system account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting the application, add `view` permissions for the default system account.
```

> That's needed by `KUBE_PING` protocol which is the protocol used to establish the cluster of {productName} nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `KUBE_PING` protocol requires `view` permissions. The `KUBE_PING` protocol is used to establish the cluster of {productName} nodes
```

with servers `server2` and `server3`.

> For the developer purposes we add the view role for the default service account with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For development purposes, add the view role for the default service account using the following command.
```

[source,sh]
----
oc policy add-role-to-user view system:serviceaccount:$(oc project -q):default -n $(oc project -q)
----

> Now you may create the `CustomerResource` which will be managed by {productName} Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After granting the permissions, you can create the `CustomResource` that will be managed by {productName} Operator.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}

# deploying client definition, one replica, PostgreSQL database has to be available
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/client-cr.yaml
# deploying server definition, two replicas, PostgreSQL database has to be available
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/server/server-cr.yaml
----

> If these commands are successful, the `oc get pod` command should show

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If these commands are successful, the `oc get pod` command shows
```

all the pods required for the quickstart, namely the quickstart client and two
server pods, the {productName} Operator pod, and the PostgreSQL database pod
that the application connects to.

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
NAME                                READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
client-0                            1/1     Running     0          29m
postgresql-f9f475f87-l944r          1/1     Running     1          22h
server-0                            1/1     Running     0          11m
server-1                            1/1     Running     0          11m
wildfly-operator-5d4b7cc868-zfxcv   1/1     Running     1          22h
----

[#_running_on_openshift_verify_the_quickstarts]
==== Running on OpenShift: Verify the Quickstarts

> The {productName} Operator created routes that makes the applications accessible from the world

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {productName} Operator creates routes that makes the applications accessible from 
```

> out of the OpenShift environment. Run the `oc get route` to find the location of the REST endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
outoutside of the OpenShift environment. Run the `oc get route` command to find the location of the REST endpoint.
```

An example of the output is:

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
NAME           HOST/PORT                                      PATH   SERVICES              PORT
client-route   client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing          client-loadbalancer   http
server-route   server-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing          server-loadbalancer   http
----

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/remote-outbound-stateless | jq .
curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/remote-outbound-notx-stateless | jq .
curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/direct-stateless | jq .
curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/remote-outbound-notx-stateful | jq .

> # to check failure resolution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# To check failure resolution
```

> # verify the number of commits which comes from the first and second node of the `server` deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# verify the number of commits that come from the first and second node of the `server` deployments
```

> # two calls are needed as each reports commit count of different node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Two calls are needed, as each reports the commit count of different node.
```

curl -s server-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/commits
curl -s server-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/commits

> # run the remote call which causes the JVM of the server to crash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Run the remote call that causes the JVM of the server to crash.
```

curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/remote-outbound-fail-stateless

> # waiting for recovery is kicked on and the number of commits increases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The system pauses to wait for recovery and the number of commits increases
```

It includes REST endpoints that provide EJB remote calls to the `server application`
residing on the other servers.
In addition, the remote EJB calls the REST endpoint invocation process to insert data into a database.
The REST invocation starts a transaction that enlists two participants
(the database and the remote server called with EJB remote invocation).
The transaction manager then uses the two-phase commit to commit the transaction.
The quickstart examines failures and shows the transactional behaviour
in such cases.

|`server`
|An application that receives the remote EJB calls from the `client` application deployed at `server1`.
This application is deployed to `server2` and `server3`.
The EJB component receives the EJB remote call and, depending on the scenario,
resumes on the transaction propagated in the context of the remote EJB call.
The call inserts data to the database.
The applications also enlists a special XAResource to the transaction to demonstrate the quickstart.
|===

== Running the quickstart

You can run the quickstart in a bare metal environment, or you can deploy it to Kubernetes or OpenShift.

> === Running the quickstart in a bare metal environment

Reviewer 2: IMHO you should drop those kind of table of contents

  that is referenced in the war deployment for connecting to the remote server via EJB remoting
  (see `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/jboss-ejb-client.xml`).
* It defines the security realm that uses the credentials added in the section <<add_application_user, Add the Authorized Application User>>.
* Then the deployment of `server1` is updated with the property `-Dwildfly.config.url` pointing to the configuration file `custom-config.xml`
  that refers to application user's credentials.
  The `custom-config.xml` descriptor provides the ability to authenticate transaction recovery after a transaction fails.

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# go to the directory with distribution of server1
cd ${jbossHomeName}_1
./bin/jboss-cli.sh \
  --file=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/remote-configuration.cli \
  --properties=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/cli.local.properties
----

NOTE: For Windows, use the `bin\jboss-cli.bat` script.

[#_configure_datasources]

> === Configure datasources

Reviewer 2: Due to the complexity and length of the document I suggest you to stick with with the default datasource on bare metal, and whatever is simpler to use on OpenShift.

# type 'SCAN' and wait for finishing

# the number of commits increased by one
curl http://localhost:8180/server/commits; echo
# output:
# ["host: mydev.narayana.io/192.168.0.1, jboss node name: server2","2"]
----

include::../shared-doc/undeploy-the-quickstart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Repeat the same for the `server2` and `server3` by navigating
to the quickstart sub-folder `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server` and run:

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
mvn wildfly:undeploy -Dwildfly.port=10090
mvn wildfly:undeploy -Dwildfly.port=10190
----

== Server Log: Expected Warnings and Errors

This quickstart is not production grade. The server log includes the following warnings 
during startup. It is safe to ignore these warnings.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
HHH000431: Unable to determine H2 database version, certain features may not work

WFLYDM0111: Keystore standalone/configuration/application.keystore not found, it will be auto generated on first use with a self signed certificate for host localhost

WFLYSRV0018: Deployment "deployment.server.war" is using a private module ("org.jboss.jts") which may be changed or removed in future versions without notice.
----

> == Kubernetes/OpenShift deployment

Reviewer 2: We support Quickstarts on Openshift only (s2i or bootable jar) so I suggest you stick to that and drop running on Kubernetes

The only difference is that some processes are a bit more automated.

Before starting to implement the QS on OpenShift, review <<_running_on_kubernetes, Running on Kubernetes>>.

==== Running on OpenShift: Prerequisites

include::../shared-doc/cd-create-project.adoc[leveloffset=+4]

[#_running_on_openshift_start_postgresql_database]
===== Running on OpenShift: Start PostgreSQL database

For testing purposes you can use

[source,sh,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# change path to ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
# deploy not-production ready PostgreSQL database to OpenShift
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/postgresql.deployment.yaml
----

[#_running_on_openshift_build_the_application]
==== Running on OpenShift: Build the application

OpenShift provides the s2i functionality out-of-the-box.
The quickstart defines two OpenShift templates.
 The `BuildConfig` template builds the application based on the images
configured in the `ImageStream` template. The `BuildConfig` template is named `wildfly-s2i`.

[source,sh,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}

> # Define the image streams of app server images.

Reviewer 2: You should try to use the s2i supported process instead, which is already documented in the cd-* or xp-* asciidoc sections in /shared-docs. The microprofile-rest-client Quickstart also creates multiple OpenShift apps, so perhaps you can reuse the solution where specific content for your quickstart is added in the shared-docs sections, and rendered if an attribute is set. @xstefank is the author of such quickstart, and usually is happy to help :-)

oc new-app --template=wildfly-s2i -p IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE=$(oc project -q) \
  -p APPLICATION_NAME=server -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.git \
  -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_REF=master -p CONTEXT_DIR=ejb-txn-remote-call/server
----

These commands create the `ImageStream` image, which contains the docker image
of the {productName} runtime image with the deployed applications of this quickstart.

Wait for the builds to finish. After a few minutes you can
verify the build status by running the `oc get pod` command. The output should
show that the `*-build` jobs have the value `Completed` in the `STATUS` column.

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
oc get pod
NAME                                READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
client-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          35m
client-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          45m
server-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          15m
server-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          19m
----

[#_running_on_openshift_install_productname_operator]
==== Running on OpenShift: Install {productName} Operator

> Installation of the {productName} Operator on OpenShift is summarized in

Reviewer 2: I suggest you to drop all wrt Operator, again your Quickstart is quite complex and you should just stick to standard baremetal and Openshift instructions to simplify it as much as possible. As it is now the user easily looses focus from what your quickstart is really about.

curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/direct-stateless | jq .
curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/remote-outbound-notx-stateful | jq .

# To check failure resolution
# verify the number of commits that come from the first and second node of the `server` deployments.
# Two calls are needed, as each reports the commit count of different node.
curl -s server-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/commits
curl -s server-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/commits
# Run the remote call that causes the JVM of the server to crash.
curl -s client-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/remote-outbound-fail-stateless
# The system pauses to wait for recovery and the number of commits increases
while true; do
  curl -s server-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/commits
  curl -s server-route-host-namespace.apps-crc.testing/commits
  I=$((I+1))
  echo " <<< Round: $I >>>"
  sleep 2
done
----

//*************************************************
// CD Release content only
//*************************************************

ifdef::EAPCDRelease[]

// Basic management actions for the OpenShift cluster
include::../shared-doc/cd-post-deployment-tasks.adoc

> endif::[]

Reviewer 2: You should add other shared docs sections, such as the CodeReady one, otherwise you will get in trouble with QE. Please have a look at the README.adoc of the recent microprofile-config quickstart, which is the current and simple XP Quickstart to look at first, as a model of what you need here too.

:level: Intermediate
:technologies: EJB, JTA, Clustering

[abstract]
The `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart demonstrates remote EJB calls over two application servers of {productName}.

:standalone-server-type: ha
:archiveType: war
:uses-h2:
:requires-multiple-servers:
:jbds-not-supported:

== What is it?

The `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart demonstrates the remote EJB calls over two application servers of {productNameFull}.

== Description

The EJB remote call contains a JTA transaction that is propagated over the EJB call.
Further, the quickstart demonstrates the transaction recovery, which is run for both servers
when a failure occurs.

This quickstart contains two maven projects.
The first maven project represents the sender side, and is intended to be deployed on the first server (`server1`).
The second project represents the called side. This project is intended to be deployed
to the other two servers (`server2` and `server3`). The two projects should not be deployed to the same server.

.Maven projects in this quickstart
[cols="40%,60%",options="headers"]
|===
|Project |Description

|`client`
|An application that you deploy to the first server, to `server1`.

> It provides REST endpoints that provides EJB remote calls to the `server application`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It includes REST endpoints that provide EJB remote calls to the `server application`
```

residing on the other servers.

> Besides the remote EJB call the REST endpoint invocation processes data insertion to a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the remote EJB calls the REST endpoint invocation process to insert data into a database.
```

> As the REST invocation starts a transaction then the transaction enlists two participants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The REST invocation starts a transaction that enlists two participants
```

(the database and the remote server called with EJB remote invocation).

> The transaction manager then uses the two-phase commit for committing the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction manager then uses the two-phase commit to commit the transaction.
```

The quickstart examines failures and shows the transactional behaviour
in such cases.

|`server`
|An application that receives the remote EJB calls from the `client` application deployed at `server1`.
This application is deployed to `server2` and `server3`.

> The EJB component receives the EJB remote call and depending on the scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EJB component receives the EJB remote call and, depending on the scenario,
```

> it resumes on the transaction propagated in the context of the remote EJB call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resumes on the transaction propagated in the context of the remote EJB call.
```

The call inserts data to the database.
The applications also enlists a special XAResource to the transaction to demonstrate the quickstart.
|===

> == Overview of running the quickstart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Running the quickstart
```

> The description is separated into two parts. The first one explains how to run the quickstart in a bare metal environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the quickstart in a bare metal environment, or you can deploy it to Kubernetes or OpenShift.
```

> The second one talks about deployment of the quickstart to Kubernetes and to OpenShift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

=== Running the quickstart in a bare metal environment

. <<_setup_the_environment_, Copy the {productName} installation directory into three directories>> `server1`, `server2` and `server3`.
. <<_configure_the_credentials_for_remote_call_authentication, Configure credentials>> on `server2` and `server3`.
. <<remote_configuration_cli, Configure a remote outbound connection>> at `server1` to both servers `server2` and `server3`.
. <<_configure_datasources, Configure datasources>> first on `server1` and then on both servers `server2` and `server3`.
. <<_start_productname_servers, Start all 3 servers>>.
. <<_running_the_quickstart, Compile and deploy the quickstart applications>> to all servers.
.. The deployed application at `server1` behaves as a client to both other servers.
   The client server, server1, offers <<rest-endpoints, several HTTP endpoints>>.

>    When you invoke the HTTP endpoint the EJB remote call is executed to `server2` or `server3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When you invoke an HTTP endpoint, the EJB remote call to `server2` or `server3` is executed.
```

. <<_examining_the_quickstart, Call one of the HTTP endpoints>> at `server1`.
+

> Based on the scenario EJB remote calls hit the remote server and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the scenario, EJB remote calls hit the remote server and
```

> specific behaviour can be observed (see<<rest-endpoints, list of the quickstart scenarios>>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can observer specific behavior (see<<rest-endpoints, list of the quickstart scenarios>>).
```
Avoid passive voice.
Red Hat technical content follows the IBM style guide, which recommends American spelling and usage.

+

> During the EJB remote calls data is inserted into database at each involved server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EJB remote calls insert data into the database of each involved server.
```

=== Running the quickstart in a Kubernetes environment

. <<_running_on_kubernetes_prerequisites, Start the PostgreSQL database>> in Kubernetes.
. <<_running_on_kubernetes_build_a_docker_image, Build the docker image from this quickstart>> with `s2i`.
. <<_running_on_kubernetes_minikube_setup, Push the docker image to the Docker registry>>
  (for the testing purposes the Minikube Docker registry).
. <<_running_on_kubernetes_run_with_productname_operator, Deploy the {productName} Operator>> to Kubernetes.
. <<running_on_kubernetes_deploy_customer_resource, Deploy the `CustomerResource` definition>> of this quickstart to Kubernetes.

> . <<_running_on_kubernetes_verify_the_running_application, Run the HTTP calls against `server1`>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<_running_on_kubernetes_verify_the_running_application, On `server1`, tun the HTTP calls >>
```

>   that cause the EJB remote invocation proceeds to other two servers. Then examine the behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that cause the EJB remote invocation to other two servers. 
  
  .Examine the behaviour.
```

=== Running the quickstart on OpenShift

. <<_running_on_openshift_start_postgresql_database, Start the PostgreSQL database>> in OpenShift.
. <<_running_on_openshift_build_the_application, Use OpenShift `oc` commands to build this quickstart>>, and deploy it to the OpenShift registry.
. <<_running_on_openshift_install_productname_operator, Install the {productName} Operator>> to OpenShift.
. <<_running_on_openshift_run_the_quickstart_with_productname_operator, Deploy the `CustomerResource` definition of this quickstart>> to OpenShift
  and setup OpenShift permissions to form the {productName} cluster.

> . <<_running_on_openshift_verify_the_quickstarts, Run the HTTP calls against `server1`>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<_running_on_openshift_verify_the_quickstarts, On `server1`, run the HTTP calls >>
```

>   that cause the EJB remote invocation proceeds to other two servers. Then examine the behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that cause the EJB remote invocation to other two servers. 
  
  /Examine the behavior.
```

// System Requirements
include::../shared-doc/system-requirements.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
// Use of {jbossHomeName}_1 and {jbossHomeName}_2
include::../shared-doc/use-of-jboss-home-name.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
// Install the Quickstart Parent Artifact in Maven
include::../shared-doc/install-quickstart-parent-artifact.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[#_setup_the_environment_]
== Setup the environment

You must set up all servers to use the EJB remote calls.

> It's needed to start three instances of an application server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must start three instances of {productName}.
```

> The easiest way to do so on local computer is to copy the {productName} installation directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to start multiple instances on local computer is to copy the {productName} installation directory
```

to three separate directories.

> The first server (`server1`) is a sender &ndash; it contains an EJB that executes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first server (`server1`) is a sender. it contains an EJB that executes
```

> a remote call to one of the remote servers (`server2`,`server3`), which are receivers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a remote call to one of the remote servers (`server2`,`server3`), which is the receiver.
```

> The installation directory for the `server1` is referred as `__{jbossHomeName}_1__`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The installation directory for `server1` is named `__{jbossHomeName}_1__`,
```

> for the `server2` it's `__{jbossHomeName}_2__` and for the `server3` it's `__{jbossHomeName}_3__`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for `server2` it is named `__{jbossHomeName}_2__` and for `server3` it is named `__{jbossHomeName}_3__`.
```
Avoid contractions in technical writing.

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# considering the ${jbossHomeName} is installation directory of the {productName}
cp -r ${jbossHomeName} server1
{jbossHomeName}_1="$PWD/server1"
cp -r ${jbossHomeName} server2
{jbossHomeName}_2="$PWD/server2"
cp -r ${jbossHomeName} server3
{jbossHomeName}_3="$PWD/server3"
----

[#_configure_the_credentials_for_remote_call_authentication]
=== Configure the credentials for remote call authentication

> For the remote call could be processed successfully from `server1` to either `server2`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To successfully process the remote call  from `server1` to either `server2`
```

> or to `server3` there has to be created a user at the receiver side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or to `server3` you must create a user on the receiver server
```

> which the call will be authenticated with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to authenticate the call.
```

> Use the following procedures for `server2` and `server3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following procedure in the directories `__{jbossHomeName}_2__` and `__{jbossHomeName}_3__` to create the users for `server2` and `server3`.
```

> Run the procedure for directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> `__{jbossHomeName}_2__` and `__{jbossHomeName}_3__`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[#add_application_user]
// Add the Authorized Application User
include::../shared-doc/add-application-user.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

[NOTE]
====

> For the `add-user.sh` (or `.bat`) command you may add a parameter `-ds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `add-user.sh` (or `.bat`) command you, can add the parameter `-ds`.
```
Our style guide recommends using "can" instead of "may".  "May" is ambiguous, as it might mean capability or permission. "Can" is clearer.

> The command line attribute `-ds` ensures that after the user is added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you include this parameter, after the user is added, the system outputs a secret value that you use when setting up the remote output connection on `server1`.
```

> there is printed the secret value that will be used in setting up

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> the remote outbound connection at `server1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The `-ds` parameter outputs:

[code,sh]
----
To represent the user add the following to the server-identities definition <secret value="cXVpY2tzdGFydFB3ZDEh" />
----
====

> The `server1` has to be configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure `server1`.
```

> Take a look at script `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/remote-configuration.cli`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the script `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/remote-configuration.cli`
```

> to understand the commands that will be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to review the commands that will be executed.
```

The `cli` script is configured with `cli.local.properties`
to run in https://wildfly.org/news/2015/03/13/Offline-CLI/[embedded mode] against the `standalone.xml`.

[[remote_configuration_cli]]

> The CLI script `remote-configuration.cli` configures several things in the application server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLI script `remote-configuration.cli` configures several options in the application server.
```

> * It configures a `remote outbound socket` which points to the port where EJB remoting endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It configures a `remote outbound socket` that points to the port where EJB remoting endpoint
```

  can be reached at `server2`.

> * It configures https://wildscribe.github.io/WildFly/18.0/subsystem/remoting/remote-outbound-connection/index.html[`remote outbound connection`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It configures a https://wildscribe.github.io/WildFly/18.0/subsystem/remoting/remote-outbound-connection/index.html[`remote outbound connection`]
```

>   which is referenced in the war deployment for connecting to the remote server via EJB remoting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that is referenced in the war deployment for connecting to the remote server via EJB remoting
```

  (see `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/jboss-ejb-client.xml`).

> * It defines the security realm which utilizes the credentials added in the section <<add_application_user, Add the Authorized Application User>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It defines the security realm that uses the credentials added in the section <<add_application_user, Add the Authorized Application User>>.
```

> * Then the deployment of `server1` refers with property `-Dwildfly.config.url` to the configuration file `custom-config.xml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Then the deployment of `server1` is updated with the property `-Dwildfly.config.url` pointing to the configuration file `custom-config.xml`
```
If the property already exists, I suggest:

"Then, in the deployment of `server1`, the property `-Dwildfly.config.url` is updated to point to the configuration file `custom-config.xml`

>   that refers to application user's credentials as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that refers to application user's credentials.
```

>   The `custom-config.xml` descriptor makes possible to authenticate the transaction recovery after a failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `custom-config.xml` descriptor provides the ability to authenticate transaction recovery after a transaction fails.
```

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# go to the directory with distribution of server1
cd ${jbossHomeName}_1
./bin/jboss-cli.sh \
  --file=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/remote-configuration.cli \
  --properties=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/cli.local.properties
----

NOTE: For Windows, use the `bin\jboss-cli.bat` script.

[#_configure_datasources]
=== Configure datasources

> The EJBs in this quickstart perform transactional work against a database so the servers need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EJBs in this quickstart perform transactional work against a database, so the servers need
```

to know how to connect to that database. The following two options show how to configure
an XA datasource with the name `ejbJtaDs` for connecting to either an embedded H2 database
or to a PostgreSQL database

> ==== Option 1: Running with embed H2 database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Running with embed H2 database
```

> Use of the embedded H2 database is easy, well suited for local testing showcase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The embedded H2 database is easy to use, and is well suited for a local testing showcase.
```

> It's not proper, in any manner, for production use,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This database is not appropriate for production use, nor is it suited for a Kubernetes or OpenShift environment.
```

> and it's not suited for the Kubernetes/OpenShift environment either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> You may set up the H2 XA datasource with the following CLI script for each {productName} instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up the H2 XA datasource in each {productName} instance using the following CLI script.
```

> First setup the first server `server1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, setup the first server, `server1`.
```

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
cd ${jbossHomeName}_1
./bin/jboss-cli.sh \
  --file=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/h2-embedded-configuration.cli \
  --properties=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/cli.local.properties
----

> Then setup the `server2` and `server3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then setup `server2` and `server3`.
```

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
cd ${jbossHomeName}_2
./bin/jboss-cli.sh \
  --file=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server/extensions/h2-embedded-configuration.cli \
  --properties=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server/extensions/cli.local.properties
cd ${jbossHomeName}_3
./bin/jboss-cli.sh \
  --file=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server/extensions/h2-embedded-configuration.cli \
  --properties=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server/extensions/cli.local.properties
----

NOTE: For Windows, use the `bin\jboss-cli.bat` script.

==== Option 2: Running with PostgreSQL database

First you need a database running. For local testing purposes

> could be used simple docker one-liner like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can use a simple docker container:
```

[source,sh]
----
docker run -p 5432:5432 --rm  -ePOSTGRES_DB=test -ePOSTGRES_USER=test -ePOSTGRES_PASSWORD=test postgres:9.4 -c max-prepared-transactions=110 -c log-statement=all
----

> The following is a brief summary of the required steps for configuring PostgreSQL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following procedure briefly summarizes the steps required to configure PostgreSQL.
```

> refer to https://github.com/jboss-developer/jboss-developer-shared-resources/blob/master/guides/CONFIGURE_POSTGRESQL.md#download-and-install-postgresql[CONFIGURE_POSTGRESQL.md]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to https://github.com/jboss-developer/jboss-developer-shared-resources/blob/master/guides/CONFIGURE_POSTGRESQL.md#download-and-install-postgresql[CONFIGURE_POSTGRESQL.md]
```

> for more complete details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for complete details.
```

> Here we present only a quick summary of the steps:

Reviewer: Delete this line.  You said the same thing above.

Author: +1

> . Download PostgreSQL JDBC driver (https://jdbc.postgresql.org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Download PostgreSQL JDBC driver (https://jdbc.postgresql.org).
```

> . Install the driver for each server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Install the driver on each server.
```

+
[source,sh]
----
./bin/jboss-cli.sh "embed-server,\
  module add --name=org.postgresql.jdbc --resources=<path-to-jar>/postgresql.jar --dependencies=javax.api\,javax.transaction.api"
----
+

> . Configure jdbc driver for each server. For `server1` use the configuration `standalone.xml`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure jdbc driver on each server. For `server1` use the configuration `standalone.xml`,
```

> for the `server2` and `server3` use the configuration `standalone-ha.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the `server2` and `server3` use the configuration file `standalone-ha.xml`.
```

+
[source,sh]
----
./bin/jboss-cli.sh "embed-server --server-config=standalone-ha.xml,\
 /subsystem=datasources/jdbc-driver=postgresql:add(driver-name=postgresql,driver-module-name=org.postgresql.jdbc,driver-xa-datasource-class-name=org.postgresql.xa.PGXADataSource)"
----
+

> . Configure xa-datasource for each server. For `server1` use the configuration `standalone.xml`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure xa-datasource for each server. For `server1` use the configuration file `standalone.xml`;
```

> for the `server2` and `server3` use the configuration `standalone-ha.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for `server2` and `server3` use the configuration file `standalone-ha.xml`.
```

+
[source,sh]
----
./bin/jboss-cli.sh "embed-server --server-config=standalone-ha.xml,\
  xa-data-source add --name=ejbJtaDs --driver-name=postgresql --jndi-name=java:jboss/datasources/ejbJtaDs --user-name=test --password=test --xa-datasource-properties=ServerName=localhost,\
  /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=ejbJtaDs/xa-datasource-properties=PortNumber:add(value=5432),\
  /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=ejbJtaDs/xa-datasource-properties=DatabaseName:add(value=test)"
----

NOTE: For Windows, use the `bin\jboss-cli.bat` script.

[#_start_productname_servers]
== Start {productName} servers

> You need to have three servers running. The first one `server1` is to be started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must run three servers. Start `server1` 
```

with the `standalone.xml` configuration.

> The other ones (the `server2` and the `server3`) are to be started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start `server2` and the `server3`) 
```

with the `standalone-ha.xml` configuration.

> If you are going to start the servers on the local machine you may consider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you start the servers on the same machine 
```

> to use port offset for each server binds to a different port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use port offsets to bind each server to a different port.
```

> Then it's mandatory to define unique transaction node id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use port offsets, you must define a unique transaction node id
```

and jboss node name for each server.

> This can be done with using the system properties `jboss.tx.node.id` and `jboss.node.name`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the system properties `jboss.tx.node.id` and `jboss.node.name` when starting the servers.
```

> on the server startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Run these commands each in a separate terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run each server startup command in a separate terminal.
```

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+",options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${jbossHomeName}_1
./bin/standalone.sh -c standalone.xml -Djboss.tx.node.id=server1 -Djboss.node.name=server1 -Dwildfly.config.url=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/configuration/custom-config.xml

cd ${jbossHomeName}_2
./bin/standalone.sh -c standalone-ha.xml -Djboss.tx.node.id=server2 -Djboss.node.name=server2 -Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=100

cd ${jbossHomeName}_3
./bin/standalone.sh -c standalone-ha.xml -Djboss.tx.node.id=server3 -Djboss.node.name=server3 -Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=200
----

NOTE: For Windows, use the `bin\standalone.bat` script.

[#_running_the_quickstart]
== Running the Quickstart

> . Start the {productName} servers as described above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<_start_productname_servers, Start the {productName} servers.>>
```

> . Clean and build the project by navigating to the root directory of this quickstart in terminal and run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Clean and build the project by navigating to the root directory of this quickstart in terminal and running
```

+
[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+",options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/
mvn clean install
----
+

> . Navigate to the subfolder `client` of this quickstart `ejb-txn-remote-call`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On `server1`, navigate to the `client` subfolder of the `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart and deploy the application `war`.
```

> and deploy `war` application to the `server1` with running

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

+
[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+",options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client
mvn wildfly:deploy
----
+

> . Navigate to the subfolder `server` of this quickstart `ejb-txn-remote-call`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On `server2` and `server3`, navigate to the `server` subfolder of the `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart and deploy the application `war` file.
```

> and deploy `war` application to the `server2` and `server3` with running

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

+
[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+",options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server
mvn wildfly:deploy -Dwildfly.port=10090
mvn wildfly:deploy -Dwildfly.port=10190
----

> The commands should be finished without any error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The commands should finish without any errors.
```
What errors might occur? What should the user do to correct problems that cause errors?

> Next verify that the deployments are published at the all three servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the deployments are published on the all three servers.
```

> . Ensure the `client/target/client.war` archive is deployed to `server1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On to `server1` check the log to make sure that the `client/target/client.war` archive is deployed.
```

> (the server which was started with no port offset) by observing the log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
...
INFO  [org.wildfly.extension.undertow] (ServerService Thread Pool -- 76) WFLYUT0021: Registered web context: '/client' for server 'default-server'
INFO  [org.jboss.as.server] (management-handler-thread - 2) WFLYSRV0010: Deployed "client.war" (runtime-name : "client.war")
----
+

> . Ensure the `server/target/server.war` archive is deployed to `server2` and `server3`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On `server2` and `server3`, check the log to confirm that the `server/target/server.war` archive is deployed. 
```

> (the two other servers which were started with the port offset) by observing the log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
...
INFO  [org.wildfly.extension.undertow] (ServerService Thread Pool -- 86) WFLYUT0021: Registered web context: '/server' for server 'default-server'
INFO  [org.jboss.as.server] (management-handler-thread - 1) WFLYSRV0016: Replaced deployment "server.war" with deployment "server.war"
----

. Verify that `server2` and `server3` formed a HA cluster.

> You can observe it in the server log of `server2` and/or `server3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the server log of either `server2` and `server3`, or both.
```

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[org.infinispan.CLUSTER] () ISPN000094: Received new cluster view for channel ejb: [server2|1] (2) [server2, server3]
[org.infinispan.CLUSTER] () ISPN100000: Node server3 joined the cluster
...
INFO  [org.infinispan.CLUSTER] () [Context=server.war/infinispan] ISPN100010: Finished rebalance with members [server2, server3], topology id 5
----

[#_examining_the_quickstart]
== Examining the Quickstart

> When the {productName} servers are configured, started, and the quickstart artifacts are deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the {productName} servers are configured and started, and the quickstart artifacts are deployed
```

> you may examine the particular method invocations and their results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can examine the method invocations and their results.
```

> The `client.war` deployed to `server1` exposes several endpoints which invokes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `client.war` deployed to `server1` exposes several endpoints that invoke
```

> EJB remote invocations to the cluster which the `server2` and `server3` formed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EJB remote invocations to the cluster that `server2` and `server3` formed.
```

The following table defines the available endpoints, and the expected behaviour
when they are invoked.

The HTTP invocations return the hostnames of the contacted servers.

[NOTE]
====
The endpoints return data in JSON format. You can use `curl` for invocation
and `jq` command to format the results. For example:
`curl -s http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-stateless | jq .`
====

[NOTE]
====

> For Windows, the `curl` and `jq` could not be available on the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Windows, the `curl` and `jq` commands might not be available on the command line.
```

> If so, please enter the endpoints directly to a browser of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If so, enter the endpoints directly to a browser of your choice.
```

The behaviour and the obtained JSON will be the same as for the `curl` command.
====

[[rest-endpoints]]

> 

Reviewer: The table needs a caption.

[options="headers"]
|===
|URL |Behaviour |Expectation

|__http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-stateless__

> |Two invocations under transaction context stared at the `server1` (sender) side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Two invocations under the transaction context started at the `server1` (sender) side.
```

> Both calls are directed to the same stateless bean on the remote server because of transaction affinity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both calls are directed to the same stateless bean on the remote server due to transaction affinity.
```

> The EJB remote call is constructed from the configuration of `remote-outbound-connection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EJB remote call is constructed from the configuration of  the `remote-outbound-connection`.
```

> |The returned hostnames have to be the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The returned hostnames must be the same.
```

|__http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-notx-stateless__
|Seven remote invocations of one stateless bean without a transaction context.
The EJB client is expected to load balance the calls on various servers.
The EJB remote call is constructed from the configuration of `remote-outbound-connection`.

> |The list of the returned hostnames should contain occurrence of the `server2`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The list of the returned hostnames should contain occurrences of both`server2`
```

> and `server3` at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `server3`.
```

|__http://localhost:8080/client/direct-stateless__

> |Two invocations under transaction context stared at the `server1` (sender) side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Two invocations under the transaction context started on `server1` (the sender side).
```

> The stateless bean is invoked at the remote side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stateless bean is invoked on the remote side.
```

The EJB remote call is constructed from the information defined directly
in the application source code.

> The remote invocation is run, as all other calls of this quickstart, via EJB remoting protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remote invocation is run, as all other calls of this quickstart, via the EJB remoting protocol.
```

> |The returned hostnames have to be the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The returned hostnames must be the same.
```

|__http://localhost:8080/client/direct-stateless-http__

> |Two invocations under transaction context stared at the `server1` (sender) side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Two invocations under the transaction context started on `server1` (the sender side).
```

> The stateless bean is invoked at the remote side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stateless bean is invoked on the remote side.
```

The EJB remote call is constructed from the information defined directly
in the application source code.

> The remote invocation is run, in difference to other calls of this quickstarts, via EJB over HTTP protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remote invocation is run, unlike the other calls of this quickstarts, via EJB over HTTP protocol.
```

> |The returned hostnames have to be the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The returned hostnames must be the same.
```

|__http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-notx-stateful__

> |Two invocations under transaction context stared at the `server1` (sender) side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Two invocations under the transaction context stared on `server1` (the sender side).
```

Both calls are directed to the same stateful bean on the remote server because
the stateful bean invocations are sticky by default.
The EJB remote call is constructed from the configuration of `remote-outbound-connection`.

> |The returned hostnames have to be the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The returned hostnames must be the same.
```

|__http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__

> |An invocation under transaction context stared at the `server1` (sender) side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|An invocation under the transaction context started on `server1` (the sender side).
```

> The call goes to one of the remote servers where error happens during transaction processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The call goes to one of the remote servers, where errors occur during transaction processing.
```

Later it's the responsibility of the recovery manager to finish the work.
|When the recovery manager finishes the work all the transaction resources are committed.

|===

=== Remote call failure invocation

Let's put some more details for the failure case, when __http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__
is invoked.

This EJB call simulates the presence of an intermittent network error that
occurs after the prepare phase of a JTA transaction but before the commit phase.

The EJB call uses a two-phase commit protocol (2PC) because more
than one participant is involved in the transaction: one for the database update

> and a second one (called `MockXAResource`) to force 2PC to be used. Because the prepare phase of 2PC protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a second one (called `MockXAResource`) to force 2PC to be used. Because the prepare phase of the 2PC protocol
```
The revision is an improvement.  I'm just adding a couple of tweaks for clarity, usage, and conformance to our style standards.

> finished successfully for both participants, a JTA transaction manager will eventually commit the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
finished successfully for both participants, a JTA transaction manager eventually commits the
```

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+",options="nowrap"]
----
# HTTP endpoind invocation
curl http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless
# output:
# host: mydev.narayana.io/192.168.0.1, jboss node name: server2

# the EJB remote call went to server2 which is started at port 8180
# examining the number of commits at server2 then
curl http://localhost:8180/server/commits; echo
# output:
# ["host: mydev.narayana.io/192.168.0.1, jboss node name: server2","1"]

# the commit count remains the same as it was before the call
# running recovery
telnet localhost 4712
# type 'SCAN' and wait for finishing

# the number of commits increased by one
curl http://localhost:8180/server/commits; echo
# output:
# ["host: mydev.narayana.io/192.168.0.1, jboss node name: server2","2"]
----

include::../shared-doc/undeploy-the-quickstart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Repeat the same for the `server2` and `server3` by navigating
to the quickstart sub-folder `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server` and run:

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
mvn wildfly:undeploy -Dwildfly.port=10090
mvn wildfly:undeploy -Dwildfly.port=10190
----

== Server Log: Expected Warnings and Errors

> This quickstart is not production grade and you will see the following warnings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This quickstart is not production grade. The server log includes the following warnings 
```

> in the server log during startup (it is safe to ignore these warnings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
during startup. It is safe to ignore these warnings.
```

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
HHH000431: Unable to determine H2 database version, certain features may not work

WFLYDM0111: Keystore standalone/configuration/application.keystore not found, it will be auto generated on first use with a self signed certificate for host localhost

WFLYSRV0018: Deployment "deployment.server.war" is using a private module ("org.jboss.jts") which may be changed or removed in future versions without notice.
----

== Kubernetes/OpenShift deployment

> For deploying this Quickstart to Kubernetes/Openshift container platform it is needed to realize some facts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying this quickstart to Kubernetes or to OpenShift Container Platform, you must consider the nature of the container environment.
```

You deploy the {productName} server to the platform. The server runs in a pod.
The pod is an ephemeral object that could be rescheduled, restarted or moved to a different machine by the platform.

> This is favourable neither for transaction manager which requires a log to be saved per {productName} server instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ephemeral nature of the pod is a poor match for the transaction manager, which requires a log to be saved for each {productName} server instance,
```

> nor for EJB remoting which requires a stable remote endpoint to ensure the state and transaction affinity,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as for EJB remoting, which requires a stable remote endpoint to ensure the state and transaction affinity,
```

and which is used during EJB remote transaction recovery calls.

> For this to work the platform has to offer some guarantees which are granted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction manager and EJB remoting require guarantees from the platform, which are granted 
```

> by StatefulSet object in case of the Kubernetes/OpenShift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the StatefulSet object in Kubernetes and OpenShift.
```

> The {productName} Operator uses the StatefulSet as the object to manage the {productName} with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {productName} Operator uses the StatefulSet to manage {productName}.
```

The {productName} Operator is the recommended way to manage the WildFly instances on Kubernetes/OpenShift.

[#_running_on_kubernetes]
=== Running on Kubernetes

> For running the application on Kubernetes you need first to build a docker image that may be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run {productName} on Kubernetes, first build a docker image that can be deployed.
```

> The deployment process is managed by {productName} Operator. When Operator is correctly setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deployment process is managed by the {productName} Operator. When the Operator is correctly setup
```

> then it pulls the docker image from a docker registry and starts the application server with the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it pulls the docker image from a docker registry and starts the application server with the deployment.
```

[#_running_on_kubernetes_prerequisites]
=== Running on Kubernetes: prerequisites

> You need to have a running PostgreSQL database. For testing purposes you may use the prepared

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quickstart requires a running PostgreSQL database. For testing purposes you can use the prepared
```

> configuration by running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration by running the following command.
```

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}

kubectl create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/postgresql.deployment.yaml
----

[#_running_on_kubernetes_build_a_docker_image]
==== Running on Kubernetes: build a docker image

[NOTE]
====
The base image to build the application for WildFly is `quay.io/repository/wildfly/wildfly-centos7`
====

> The whole concept of the {productName} image builds are based on the https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image[s2i].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{productName} image builds are based on the https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image[s2i] process.
```

> The *s2i* tooling takes a docker image (_quay.io/repository/wildfly/wildfly-centos7_ in WildFly case).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *s2i* tooling starts with a docker image (_quay.io/repository/wildfly/wildfly-centos7_ in WildFly case), and 
```

> This image is enriched with a *s2i* logic which is invoked during build of provided source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enriches it with a *s2i* logic that is invoked during the build of the provided source code.
```

> The *s2i* logic is useful for deployment build for additional steps like configuring the application server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *s2i* logic enhances the deployment build with additional steps, such as configuring the application server.
```

> Check the directories `client/extensions` and `server/extensions` where shell scripts executes the CLI commands to be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the directories `client/extensions` and `server/extensions` for shell scripts that include CLI commands to be executed.
```

> The {productName} s2i does not know about the `extensions` directory, but it knows how to work with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {productName} s2i does not know about the `extensions` directory, but it knows how to consume
```

> shell scripts named as `install.sh` and `postconfigure.sh`. On s2i build we need to inform about existence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shell scripts with the names `install.sh` and `postconfigure.sh`. Use the environmental variable `S2I_IMAGE_SOURCE_MOUNTS to inform the s2i build about `extensions` directory.
```

> of the directory with environmental variable `S2I_IMAGE_SOURCE_MOUNTS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Then there are directories `client/configuration` and `server/configuration`. The content of those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contents of the `client/configuration` and `server/configuration` directories are copied to the directory `$JBOSS_HOME/standalone/configuration` in the result image.
```

> directories will be copied to the result image to directory `$JBOSS_HOME/standalone/configuration`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[NOTE]
====
If pushing of the image fails with authentication error
it may help to enable an insecure registry for address `$(minikube ip):5000`.

Add the address to the list of the insecure registries,
normally by editing file  `/etc/docker/daemon.json`.

[source,json,options="nowrap"]
----
{
  "insecure-registries": ["<minikube ip address>:5000"]
}
----

Reload the docker daemon with `systemctl daemon-reload; systemctl restart docker`.
====

The other option is to change the docker context
https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/#use-local-images-by-re-using-the-docker-daemon[to use the minikube one].

[#_running_on_kubernetes_run_with_productname_operator]
==== Running on Kubernetes: run with {productName} Operator

You deploy the {productName} Operator via Kubernetes `Deployment` object.
The {productName} Operator listens to changes at other Kubernetes objects
of the type `CustomerResource`.
The WildFly Operator manages `CustomerResource` of kind `WildFlyServer`.

The WildFly Operator can be found at https://quay.io[Quay.io]
repository at https://quay.io/repository/wildfly/wildfly-operator
with source code at https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator.

> To start the `Deployment` has to be created on Kubernetes.The YAML definition can be found in

Reviewer 3: I wasn't looking for something that explains YAML. But with your latest change it is now clear that you are referring to the YAML for the Operator’s Deployment definition (which wasn't clear in the last version), thanks.

wildfly-operator-5d4b7cc868-8qhjn   1/1     Running   0          15h

# check the logs of the servers are clean from any errors
kubectl logs client-0
kubectl logs server-0
kubectl logs server-1
----

[#_running_on_kubernetes_verify_the_running_application]
==== Running on Kubernetes: verify the running application

With this running it could check the calls to the endpoints.

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-stateless | jq .
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-notx-stateless | jq .
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/direct-stateless | jq .
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-notx-stateful | jq .

# to check failure resolution
curl -s $(minikube service server-loadbalancer --url)/commits
curl -s $(minikube service client-loadbalancer --url)/remote-outbound-fail-stateless
# waiting for recovery is kicked on and the number of commits increases
while true; do
  curl -s $(minikube service server-loadbalancer --url)/commits
  echo
  sleep 2
done
----

=== Running on OpenShift

> include::../shared-doc/cd-openshift-getting-started.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

Reviewer 3: I used `asciidoc  ejb-txn-remote-call/README.adoc`.

Did you use a tool to view the resulting output?

All the points said about the Kubernetes are valid for https://www.okd.io[OpenShift].

> The only difference is that some processes are a bit more automatized.

Reviewer 3: The past tense is spelt automatised.

Author: +1

Please, first read the section on <<_running_on_kubernetes, Running on Kubernetes>>.

==== Running on OpenShift: Prerequisites

include::../shared-doc/cd-create-project.adoc[leveloffset=+5]

[#_running_on_openshift_start_postgresql_database]
===== Running on OpenShift: Start PostgreSQL database

For the test purposes you may use

[source,sh,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# change path to ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}
# deploy not-production ready PostgreSQL database to OpenShift
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/postgresql.deployment.yaml
----

[#_running_on_openshift_build_the_application]
==== Running on OpenShift: Build the application

OpenShift provides the s2i functionality out-of-the-box.
The quickstart defines two OpenShift templates which setup `ImageStream`s
and the `BuildConfig`.The `BuildConfig` builds the application based on the images

> configured in thee `ImageStream`.We named the `BuildConfig` template `wildfly-s2i`.

Reviewer 3: thee -> the

Author: +1

[source,sh,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}

# define the image streams of app server images
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/openshift-image-streams.json
# upload template definition for the builds named wildfly-s2i
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/openshift-chain-build-config.json

# invoke the build via s2i chain build
oc new-app --template=wildfly-s2i -p IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE=$(oc project -q) \
  -p APPLICATION_NAME=client -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.git \
  -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_REF=master -p CONTEXT_DIR=ejb-txn-remote-call/client
oc new-app --template=wildfly-s2i -p IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE=$(oc project -q) \
  -p APPLICATION_NAME=server -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.git \
  -p SOURCE_REPOSITORY_REF=master -p CONTEXT_DIR=ejb-txn-remote-call/server
----

With this we have created the `ImageStream` which contains the docker image
of the {productName} runtime image with the deployed applications of this quickstart.

Now you need to wait until the builds are finished.It will probably be a few minutes.
You can verify that the build is done by running `oc get pod`.

> Then all the `*-build` jobs are with `STATUS` `Completed`.

Reviewer 3: How about the following instead:

```
Now you need to wait for the builds to finish. After a few minutes you can
verify the build status by running the `oc get pod` command, the output should
show that the `*-build` jobs have the the value `Completed` in the `STATUS` column.
```

Author: +1

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
oc get pod
NAME                                READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
client-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          35m
client-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          45m
server-2-build                      0/1     Completed   0          15m
server-build-artifacts-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          19m
----

[#_running_on_openshift_install_productname_operator]
==== Running on OpenShift: Install {productName} Operator

For installing the {productName} Operator to OpenShift there are a few steps required.
The best they are summarized at
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-operator/blob/master/build/run-openshift.sh[build/run-openshift.sh].

> The script setup the OpenShift and creates the CRDs necessary for {productName} Operator

Reviewer 3: "The script setup the OpenShift" -> "The script sets up OpenShift"

Author: +1

----
====

Before starting the application we need to add `view` permissions for the default system account.
That's needed by `KUBE_PING` protocol which is the protocol used to establish the cluster of {productName} nodes
with servers `server2` and `server3`.
For the developer purposes we add the view role for the default service account with the following command.

[source,sh]
----
oc policy add-role-to-user view system:serviceaccount:$(oc project -q):default -n $(oc project -q)
----

Now you may create the `CustomerResource` which will be managed by {productName} Operator.

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}

# deploying client definition, one replica, PostgreSQL database has to be available
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/client/client-cr.yaml
# deploying server definition, two replicas, PostgreSQL database has to be available
oc create -f ejb-txn-remote-call/server/server-cr.yaml
----

As the result there should be a running the quickstart application pods when executed `oc get pod`.
At the side of the application pods we expect to have running the {productName} Operator pod,

> and the PostgreSQL database pod as the application will connect to it.

Reviewer 3: If I understood this paragraph correctly, how about rephrasing it as:

```
If these commands are successful, the `oc get pod` command should show
all the pods required for the quickstart, namely the quickstart client and two
server pods, the WildFly Operator pod and the PostgreSQL database pod
that the application connects to.
```

Author: yes, you do. I changed it. thanks
+1

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
NAME                                READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
client-0                            1/1     Running     0          29m
postgresql-f9f475f87-l944r          1/1     Running     1          22h
server-0                            1/1     Running     0          11m
server-1                            1/1     Running     0          11m
wildfly-operator-5d4b7cc868-zfxcv   1/1     Running     1          22h
----

[#_running_on_openshift_verify_the_quickstarts]
==== Running on OpenShift: Verify the Quickstarts

The {productName} Operator created routes that makes the applications accessible from the world
out of the OpenShift environment.Run the `oc get route` to find the location of the REST endpoint.

> The example of the output is down here.

Reviewer 3: Replace with:
```
An example of the output is:
```

Author: +1

the remote outbound connection at `server1`.

Now the configuration of `server1` follows as set of JBoss CLI commands to be run.
The cli script is configured to run with `server.xml` config file in embed mode
(not needed to start the application server before the CLI is run).

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
# go to the directory with distribution of server1
cd ${jbossHomeName}_1
./bin/jboss-cli.sh \
  --properties=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/remote-configuration.local.properties \
  --file=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/remote-configuration.cli
----

=== Configure datasources

As said for the transaction work could be done the quickstarts uses datasources.
For that it's needed to have a database and configure the server to know how to connect to it.
This quickstart works either with H2 embed database or PostgreSQL.

==== Option 1: Running with embed H2 database

The configuration of H2 is easy, well suited for local testing showcase
but it skips the steps needed to be done for other databases
and furthermore it's not suited for the OpenShift environment.

> For running the quickstart with H2 you need just rename the files

Reviewer 2: *-ds.xml have been deprecated for long, is there no other option?

Author: I see. I can remove the `-ds.xml` and I'll add the steps for the datasource creation to the CLI script.

include::../shared-doc/attributes.adoc[]

= ejb-txn-remote-call: Demonstrates remote EJB calls and transaction propagation
:author: Ondra Chaloupka
:level: Intermediate
:technologies: EJB, JTA, Clustering

[abstract]

> The `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart demonstrates the remote EJB calls over two application servers of {productName}.

Reviewer: "demonstrates the remote EJB calls"

The article is not necessary; delete "the"

"remote EJB calls over two application servers "

Is this quickstart illustrating a high-availability environment? If not, the preposition should change: "over" > "between".

Author: Yes, the quickstart should illustrate kind of the high-availability environment where the `server1` calls one of two other servers `server2` and/or `server3`. If on of the other servers fail then there is still one active available to process requests. Is it fine to leave here the "over" then?

:standalone-server-type: ha
:archiveType: war
:uses-h2:
:requires-multiple-servers:
:jbds-not-supported:

> == What is it?

Reviewer: Is this type of heading standard in the quickstarts?  We usually recommend against using questions as headings or titles, as users search for answers rather than questions.  Users are less likely to follow up on search results posed as questions.

Author: I reused this heading from other quickstarts - e.g. see https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart/tree/master/helloworld#what-is-it or others. Could be keep as it is or should be changed to something like "Overview"?

Reviewer: If this heading is standard in the quickstarts, I would say to leave it so it is consistent with the others.

The `ejb-txn-remote-call` quickstart demonstrates the remote EJB calls over two application servers of {productNameFull}.

== Description

> The EJB remote calls contains a JTA transaction which is propagated over the EJB call.

Reviewer: "The EJB remote calls contains "

Subject-verb agreement. 

Is this specifically describing the calls  in this quickstart?  Or calls in general.  I recommend clarifying either way.

"contains a JTA transaction which is propagated"

"which" > "that"

We follow the IBM Style Guide, which calls for American usage of relative pronouns.  American usage is more strict in regard to usage of "that" and "which".

Author: I changed the "which" to "that".
To your first question - I meant the calls in this quickstart.

Reviewer: Did you edit to clarify?  For some reason, I am not seeing revisions.  Perhaps you have not committed and pushed them yet.

Author: Yes, I added the comment before I've really pushed the update to github. I assume I should rather used the review for this. Now it should be updated.

> Further the quickstart demonstrates the transaction recovery which is run for both servers

Reviewer: I recommend a comma after "further".

"demonstrates the transaction recovery which is"

Need a comma after "recovery".

Author: +1

when a failure occurs.

> This quickstart contains two maven projects. As the goal is to make a remote call from one server

Reviewer: "As the goal is to make a remote call"

I think you can delete this sentence, as you have describe earlier that the intent is to demonstrate calls between two servers.  

If you keep it, it is currently a sentence fragment.  Replace the period in the previous sentence with a comma, and make "as" lower-case.

Author: +1 for removal

to the another.

> The first maven projects is meant to be deployed on one server, representing the caller side,

Reviewer: How about:

The first maven project represents the caller side, and is intended to be deployed on a single server. The second project represents the called side. This project is intended to be deployed to one or more additional servers.  The two projects should not be deployed to the same server.

Author: I used your sentence just adjuted it a little bit.

and the second maven project is meant to be deployed on a set of second servers, representing the callee side.

> [cols="40%,60%",options="headers"]

Reviewer: Tables should have a caption.  The caption is an accessibility requirement, but it is good practice in general to inform the reader about the purpose of the table.

Author: +1

|===
|Project |Description

|`client`

> |An application that needs to be deployed to the first server. It contains an EJB which calls

Reviewer: "needs to be deployed "

Do not use the "needs to be" construction.  I suggest:

" An application that you deploy to one server."

"It contains an EJB which calls"

"which" > "that".

Author: +1

>  the EJB application on the second server.

Reviewer: "on the second server."

I suggest: "on one or more other servers."

Author: I changed the text a bit so this text is not in the readme anymore.

 For the EJB processing will be enlisted to the JTA transaction and processed with the two-phase

>  commit there is an execution which inserts data into database.

Reviewer: +1  The intent of the passage is not clear enough to me that I can recommend an edit.

>  commit there is an execution which inserts data into database.

Author: I tried to rephrase it.

|`server`

> |An application which is about tobe deployed to the second server. It contains an EJB which is capable

Reviewer: "An application which is about tobe deployed to the second server."

I recommend revising this whole passage"

An application that you deploy to one or more servers other than the one where the client application is deployed.  This application contains an EJB that received remote calls from the client application.

> |An application which is about tobe deployed to the second server. It contains an EJB which is capable

Author: I tried to rephrase the text.

 to receive a remote call from the first server.
 For the EJB processing being enlisted to the JTA transaction there is a database insertion

>  being part of the logic in the EJB business method. Then there is a special XAResource

Reviewer: This passage is very wordy and complicated.  I think the point is that the EJB processing enlisted to the transaction includes a database insertion. I'm not sure what the last part of the passage "being part of the logic in the EJB business method" is communicating to the user.

"Then there is a special XAResource enlisted to the transaction for purposes of this quickstart demonstration." 

I think the point here is that the application includes an additional XAResource related to the quickstart, but I am not sure how it is related or what it does.

In general, avoid the "there is/there are" construction.  It is weak and usually not informative.  Revise with a stronger, more engaging verb.

In this case, perhaps:

"The applications also enlists a special XAResource to the transaction to demonstrate the quickstart."

>  being part of the logic in the EJB business method. Then there is a special XAResource

Author: +1

 enlisted to the transaction for purposes of this quickstart demonstration.

|===

// System Requirements
include::../shared-doc/system-requirements.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
// Use of {jbossHomeName}_1 and {jbossHomeName}_2
include::../shared-doc/use-of-jboss-home-name.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
// Install the Quickstart Parent Artifact in Maven
include::../shared-doc/install-quickstart-parent-artifact.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

> 

Reviewer: @mmusgrov These are calls to include shared content that is stored in another location.  

Re-using shared content reduces writing work and also reduces risk of error if common content requires revision.

> 

Author: +1 yes, this is standard for all quickstarts to reuse common configuration steps

== Setup the environment

> For the EJB remote calls works there is needed to setup all {productName} servers. Let's see

Reviewer: "You must set up all servers to use the EJB remote calls."

Author: +1

> what are necessary steps:

Reviewer: "Let's see ￼what are necessary steps:"

This text does not provide new information to the reader.  Delete it.

Author: +1

It's needed to start three instances of application server.
The easiest way to do so on local computer is to copy the {productName} installation directory
to three separate directories.

The first server (`server1`) is a caller &ndash; it contains an EJB which executes
a remote call to one of the remote servers (`server2`,`server3`), which are callees.

> The distribution directory for the `server1` is reffered as `__{jbossHomeName}_1__`,

Author: +1

----

NOTE: For Windows, use the `bin\jboss-cli.bat` script.

=== Configure datasources

As said for the transaction work could be done the quickstarts uses datasources.
For that it's needed to have a database and configure the server to know how to connect to it.
This quickstart works with any database when XA datasource of name `ejbJtaDs` is configured.
The following two options introduce steps to setup with the H2 embed database or with the PostgreSQL.

==== Option 1: Running with embed H2 database

Use of the embedded H2 database is easy, well usited for local testing showcase.
But it's not proper, in any manner, for production use
and it's not suited for the Kubernetes/OpenShift environment either.

To setup the H2 XA datasource the following CLI script for each {productName} instance.

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+"]
----
cd ${jbossHomeName}_1
./bin/jboss-cli.sh \
  --file=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/h2-embedded-configuration.cli \
  --properties=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/cli.local.properties

# repeat the CLI call at ${jbossHomeName}_2 and ${jbossHomeName}_3

> cd ${jbossHomeName}_2

Author: +1

----
+
. Configure xa-datasource for each server. For `server1` use the configuration `standalone.xml`,
for the `server2` and `server3` use the configuration `standalone-ha.xml`
+
[source,sh]
----
./bin/jboss-cli.sh "embed-server --server-config=standalone-ha.xml,\
  xa-data-source add --name=ejbJtaDs --driver-name=postgresql --jndi-name=java:jboss/datasources/ejbJtaDs --user-name=test --password=test --xa-datasource-properties=ServerName=localhost,\
  /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=ejbJtaDs/xa-datasource-properties=PortNumber:add(value=5432),\
  /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=ejbJtaDs/xa-datasource-properties=DatabaseName:add(value=test)"
----

NOTE: For Windows, use the `bin\jboss-cli.bat` script.

== Start {productName} servers

You need to have three servers running. The first one `server` is to be started
with the `standalone.xml` configuration.
The other ones (the `server2` and the `server3`) are to be started
with the `standalone-ha.xml` configuration.

If you are going to start the servers on the local machine you may consider
to use port offset for each server binds to a different ports.
Then it's highly recommended to define unique transaction node id

> and jboss node name for each server.

Author: +1

[source,sh,subs="+quotes,attributes+",options="nowrap"]
----
cd ${jbossHomeName}_1

> ./bin/standalone.sh -c standalone.xml -Djboss.tx.node.id=server1 -Djboss.node.name=server1 -Dwildfly.config.url=${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/configuration/custom-config.xml

Author: +1

Both calls are directed to the same stateful bean on the remote server because
the stateful bean invocations are sticky by default.
The EJB remote call is constructed from the configuration of `remote-outboud-connection`.
|The returned hostnames have to be the same.

|__http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__
|An invocation under transaction context stared at the `server1` (caller) side.
The call goes to one of the remote servers where error happens during transaction processing.
But the failure happens when two-phase commit decided about commit the work.
The observer can see no error &ndash; the remote call finishes with success.
Later it's responsibility of the recovery manager to finish the work.
|When the recovery manager finishes the work all the transaction resources are committed.

|===

=== Remote call failure ivocation

Let's put some more details for the failure case, when __http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless__
is invoked.

As stated above the ivocation fails. This failure simulates a intermittent network error
at time the transaction two-phase commit protocol

> already decided that the work has to be committed. The observer is not informed

Author: +1 yes, thanks. the caller

about the intermittent failure as it's responsibility of recovery manager to finish
all the work.

The work, which has to be finished by recovery, is consisted of committing two XAResources
which were part of the business method at the caller side of artifact `server.war`.
First is data insertion to a database. Second is a testing XAResource which does
no real work but it's capable to inform us if it was committed.
You can ask the server about the number succesful of commits of the testing XAResource

> by invoking REST endpoint `http://localhost:8180/server/commits`.

Reviewer 3: Is an example

```bash
[mmusgrov@dev1 wildfly.latest] (master) $ curl http://localhost:8180/server/commits
["host: dev1.ncl.jboss.com/192.168.0.33, jboss node name: server2","3"]
```
What does the output mean?

Author: +1, I added a text on it

The http://jbossts.blogspot.com/2018/01/narayana-periodic-recovery-of-xa.html[recovery manager]
normally executes the recovery processing in periodically every 2 minutes.
When the recovery process is started the resources at the remote server (on the callee side)

> are committed.

Reviewer 3: Where is this process running, is it in one of the servers, if so which one?

Author: +1, it's the `server1`. I added a sentence in this regard.

You may speed up the process and invoke the recovery process manually by accessing
the port where recovery manager listener listens at. The recovery listener was enabled

> for this purpose by cli command, see `${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/client/extensions/remote-configuration.cli`.

Reviewer 3: This cli command does not work

Reviewer 3: I also tried the telnet command below. I got no feedback, what was meant to happen?

Author: ok, I need to check.

Author: That was not meant that the command should be executed, just that it was already executed. The `telnet` command works, I assume just it's not obvious what to do with it.

I rephrased the whole section. Hopefully it will be more comprehensible now. Let me know.

For starting the recovery processing send `SCAN` command to socket at `localhost:4712`.

[source]
----
telnet localhost 4712
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to localhost.
Escape character is '^]'.
SCAN
DONE
Connection closed by foreign host.
----

Steps for observe the processing

. Invoke the endpoint
+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
curl -s http://localhost:8080/client/remote-outbound-fail-stateless
----
+
. Check the server logs

> .. The `server1` will contain error

Reviewer 3: I assume you mean that I should look in the log `server1/standalone/log/server.log` and search for the ARJUNA016036 warning.

Reviewer 3: It might be worth briefly explaining what the errors mean.

Author: +1

+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
ARJUNA016036: commit on < formatId=131077, gtrid_length=35, bqual_length=36, tx_uid=..., node_name=server1, branch_uid=..., subordinatenodename=null, eis_name=unknown eis name > (Subordinate XAResource at remote+http://localhost:8180) failed with exception $XAException.XA_RETRY: javax.transaction.xa.XAException: WFTXN0029: The peer threw an XA exception
----
+
. The `server2` or `server3` will contain error
+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
ARJUNA016036: commit on < formatId=131077, gtrid_length=35, bqual_length=43, tx_uid=..., node_name=server1, branch_uid=..., subordinatenodename=server2, eis_name=unknown eis name > (org.jboss.as.quickstarts.ejb.mock.MockXAResource@731ae22) failed with exception $XAException.XAER_RMFAIL: javax.transaction.xa.XAException
----
+
. Verify number of commits done for the test XAResource at the server side
+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
curl -s http://localhost:8180/server/commits
curl -s http://localhost:8280/server/commits

> ----

Reviewer 3: What does the output mean?
What are the expected results?
How can decide whether the expected behaviour happened (I need this information in order to decide whether the quickstart is operating correctly)?

Author: I changed the text, hopefully it's now more meaningful.

+

> . Start recovery processing by entering `SCAN` string with command `telnet localhost 4712` at terminal

Reviewer 3: I ran this command above on line 402. Why do I need to do it a second time?

Author: The first paragraph was meant to introduce the `telnet` command. This talks about sequence of steps to execute to examine the quickstart case.
I changed the text and hopefully it's better now.

+
[NOTE]
====
If the telnet is not available at your machine is recommended to be installed for you may proceed
further with this guide.
====
+
.. After the recovery is processed the server log at `server2` or `server3` should contain warning
+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
WARN  [com.arjuna.ats.jta] (Periodic Recovery) ARJUNA016114: Could not load org.jboss.as.quickstarts.ejb.mock.MockXAResource will try to get XAResource from the recovery helpers
----
+
. Verify the number of commits done for the test XAResource at the server side. The commit count should be increased by one.
+
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
curl -s http://localhost:8180/server/commits

> curl -s http://localhost:8280/server/commits

Reviewer 3: I got the same results as when I ran the commands above on line 435:

```bash
[mmusgrov@dev1 wildfly.latest] (master) $ curl -s http://localhost:8180/server/commits
["host: dev1.ncl.jboss.com/192.168.0.33, jboss node name: server2","4"][mmusgrov@dev1 wildfly.latest] (master) $
[mmusgrov@dev1 wildfly.latest] (master) $ curl -s http://localhost:8280/server/commits
["host: dev1.ncl.jboss.com/192.168.0.33, jboss node name: server3","0"][mmusgrov@dev1 wildfly.latest] (master) $
```

Does that mean the test failed or does it mean that recovery already happened or something else?

----

> include::../shared-doc/undeploy-the-quickstart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer 3: Ah so now I have finished with recovery testing and I am being told to undeploy the EBJs, that could be made explicit in the instructions.

This link does not tell me to change directory into the client directory.

Author: This is a link to a common resource used in the all quickstarts. The result is a rendered as which contains this information.

Reapeat the same for the `server2` and `server3` by navigating
to the quickstart subfolder ``${PATH_TO_QUICKSTART_DIR}/ejb-txn-remote-call/server` and running

[source,sh,options="nowrap"]
----
mvn wildfly:undeploy -Dwildfly.port=10090
mvn wildfly:undeploy -Dwildfly.port=10190
----

== Server Log: Expected Warnings and Errors

You will see the following warnings in the server log. You can ignore these warnings.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
HHH000431: Unable to determine H2 database version, certain features may not work

WFLYDM0111: Keystore standalone/configuration/application.keystore not found, it will be auto generated on first use with a self signed certificate for host localhost

WFLYSRV0018: Deployment "deployment.server.war" is using a private module ("org.jboss.jts") which may be changed or removed in future versions without notice.

> ----

Reviewer 3: At what point in the quickstart can I expect to see these warnings. Maybe there needs to be a link to this section from the step that generates the warning or error.

Author: +1, I added the information that the warnings are shown during the server startup.
